Title: French fries: how much exercise should you do to burn it off- Ryan Fernando

Description: To Book RYAN FERNANDO as a speaker in your Company call +919743430000 or email devika@quanutrition.com. Visit us: https://quanutrition.com/Nutrition_packages/corporate_nutrition_plan.html

Best Corporate Nutrition Programs: A riveting talk to Corporate Executives by Ryan Fernando. A guest speaker at the Annual awards at ACT ( An Internet Broadband company), Ryan delved into the world of digesting the truth behind eating to become an office olympian. Every HR professional may want to share this presentation or invite Ryan to a lecture at your company.

Healthy eating habits for 9 to 5 working professionals: Practice mindful eating
The best diet for people who work a 9-5 job: A healthy balanced meal.
The Working Person's Diet Plan: Eat for productivity and performance
Diet Plan For Working Professionals: Customized diet plan catering to your specific needs
Weight loss at work: Hacks for losing weight at work. 
Corporate Employee Nutrition Programs: Healthy employees are more productive.

Workplace stress is a prevalent issue that affects absenteeism, employee turnover, workplace performance, and productivity. Employees and employers alike suffer from excessive stress. So, what can be done to make things better? Lack of control, too much work, too much pressure, too much responsibility, lack of management support, company restructuring, disputes with others, and a lack of clarity among nervous employees about what they were expected to be doing were listed as the main causes of workplace stress.You might be shocked to hear that what you eat has a significant impact on your workplace efficiency. Your meal choices have an impact on your energy levels, alertness, and concentration. Many individuals use stimulants to get a boost in the morning, but caffeinated drinks, sugary foods, and cigarettes only provide a brief burst of adrenaline, which then fades as the stimulant wears off, resulting in a yoyo effect that many people continue to experience throughout the day.You need stable blood sugar levels for energy, alertness, and concentration at work to perform at your best. If you eat healthful things like fruit, salad, veggies, nuts, and legumes, you'll be more productive. Wholegrain flour is preferable to refined flour. These nutrients offer sustained energy and glucose to the brain, not just in short bursts, but over time, allowing you to operate at your best throughout the day.

#eatinghabits #exercisetoreducefat #ryanfernando

Transcript: french fries pile of french fries you put french fries in front of me right now and you can bribe me to do anything because I'm avoiding it because it's freaking 610 calories now it's like you coming to me say hello good morning sir I'm selling you act broadband if you are giving 500 Mbps per second I have no idea what that means I only ask one question if I talk to my client will the signal break no sir now I am explaining in your tablet 610 calories my dear friends for a 75 kg person is swimming for one or three two minutes ladies gents one or nine minutes so when you enjoy that McDonald's when you enjoy that key of C next time you're going to think of me Ryan Fernando and I'm going to be on that back saying hey dude it's one kilo meter no sorry it's one hour swimming checkout you're walking can you see that three hours you want to eat french fries today eat french fries today then walk to the airport tomorrow when you're going back this is the reason because you have not been trained I have not been trained in school to understand the calorie or the energy value of food so once you start educating so don't say Ryan oh is this chips healthy first ask yourself how much calories in potato put it on mashed potato boiled potato fried potato baked very simple they are researching everything including going to the hospital and doctors why not your food okay so next time you go for french fries you will see my face on that pack that's all I want you to remember