Title: The least we can do to keep heart healthy! Basic markers to check your heart health status

Description: Call us at +91-9743430000 to connect with an expert nutritionist at QUA Nutrition Cardiac Division & get yourself a customized heart health nutrition plan that incorporates your diagnostic reports, medical history, food preferences, and many other factors.

The least we can do to keep heart healthy!

Diagnostics help identify potential health issues and keep you on track.

Celebrity Nutritionist Ryan Fernando, along with Shwetambari Shetty, Fitness Expert at CureFit interacted with Dr. Aashish Contractor- Director- Dept of Rehab Medicine and Sports Medicine, Sir H.N. Reliance Foundation Hospital, to know his expert views on the matter.

A balanced diet can lower your chance of developing cardiovascular disease, prevent weight increase, lower your risk of diabetes & high blood pressure, and maintain your cholesterol levels, which are significant heart disease risk factors.

Call us at +91-9743430000 to connect with an expert nutritionist at QUA Nutrition Cardiac Division & get yourself a customized heart health nutrition plan that incorporates your diagnostic reports, medical history, food preferences, and many other factors.

Transcript: I think to start with every adult should know some very basic numbers okay you must know your height and weight I know I'm stating the obvious but there are so many people who don't you must know at least once you're your blood pressure your cholesterol your sugar these are all simple things which can be done with one simple inexpensive blood test and somebody measuring your blood pressure the problem is these are all silent issues all these three big ones blood pressure cholesterol and sugar if your numbers are way high you won't know it until you measure it so if you ask a room full of people do you have you know high cholesterol very few people may put the hand down but then if you ask them how many of you are actually measured in the last one year again very few people will put the hand down so you can't assume you've got good cholesterol or sugar or blood pressure until you measure it so if this is the minimum testing you need to do once a year now if any of these numbers come High then yes you need to test further something else I would two more points I would add if somebody has a strong family history of heart disease by that I mean some direct relation mother father brother sister has has died young when I say young say below the age of 60 not just had a heart disease but died young below the age of 60. that would be a sort of a long Bell in my mind so speak to your doctor he or she may want you to do further tests if you want to embark on vigorous exercise right not just a simple wrist walking program if you want to embark on invigorous exercise talk to your doctor to see whether additional tests are required or not