Title: Top Nutritionist Reveals Onam Sadhya's Hidden Health Benefits!

Description: 🌸 Happy Onam, everyone! 🌸
Wishing you all a very Happy Onam! As we celebrate this beautiful festival, let's remember it's not just about the colours, the flowers, or the boat races—it's about family, togetherness, and the joy of sharing food, laughter, and memories. I had a wonderful chat with my favourite dietician  HOD at @quanutrition, who explained Sadhya, the traditional meal cherished in this holy festival Onam. 
I gave my tips on how to portion control while enjoying  25 different dishes in Sadhya to the fullest. 

To get a proper balanced nutritional plan, please fill out this form and my team will get in touch with you
https://forms.gle/MjSXjUdMEjNFmMgf8

- Rice: Energy-rich carbohydrate source.
- Parippu (Dal): High in protein and fiber.
- Sambar:
Aids digestion (tamarind and spices).
Rich in antioxidants and anti-inflammatory properties.
Low in calories, high in flavor.
- Rasam:
Supports digestion.
Antioxidant-rich, anti-inflammatory.
- Avial:
High in fiber, vitamins, and minerals.
Coconut provides healthy fats; yogurt adds protein and probiotics for gut health.
- Thoran:
Rich in fiber and healthy fats (from coconut).
Antioxidants support overall health.
- Olan:
Fiber-rich, provides protein (cowpeas) and healthy fats (coconut milk).
Soothing and easy to digest.
- Kootu Curry:
Balanced in protein (chickpeas), fiber, and carbohydrates.
Coconut adds healthy fats and antioxidants.
- Kichadi:
Hydrating and antioxidant-rich (cucumber/bitter gourd).
Yogurt base adds calcium and probiotics.
- Pachadi:
Rich in fiber, vitamins, and minerals from fruit.
Yogurt adds calcium, protein, and probiotics for gut health.
- Pulissery:
Yogurt-based, providing calcium, protein, and probiotics.
Fruits like mango add vitamins A and C.
- Erissery:
Pumpkin provides vitamins A, C, and fiber for eye health and digestion.
Coconut boosts healthy fats.
- Theeyal:
Fiber and antioxidants from bitter gourd/eggplant.
Roasted coconut provides healthy fats and antioxidants.
- Kaalan:
Fiber-rich from yam and banana.
Yogurt adds probiotics and calcium for digestion and bone health.
- Inji Puli:
Ginger offers anti-inflammatory and digestive benefits.
Tamarind adds antioxidants and aids digestion.
- Mango Pickle:
Rich in vitamin C and antioxidants.
Spices and oil support digestion.
- Naranga Achar (Lemon Pickle):
High in vitamin C, boosts immunity and digestion.
Fermentation introduces beneficial bacteria.
- Papadam:
Protein and fiber from lentil flour, though deep-fried (consume in moderation).
- Banana Chips:
Quick energy from carbohydrates, rich in potassium (moderation needed due to frying).
- Sharkara Upperi (Jaggery-coated Banana Chips):
Provides potassium; jaggery adds iron and antioxidants.
- Salt:
Essential for fluid balance and nerve function (moderate consumption advised).
- Buttermilk (Sambaram):
Hydrating and rich in probiotics.
Provides calcium, protein, and vitamins B12 and riboflavin.
- Payasam:
Healthy fats (coconut milk), iron (jaggery), and carbohydrates (rice/lentils).
- Ada Pradhaman:
Contains healthy fats (coconut milk), iron (jaggery), and carbs (rice flakes).
- Banana:
Rich in potassium, fiber, and vitamins B6 and C.
Aids digestion and supports heart health.

00:00 - 00:18: Introduction: Wishing Happy Onam and introducing Suhasini to talk about Onam Sadhya.
00:18 - 00:42: Suhasini explains the significance of Onam.
00:42 - 01:04: The Grand Onam Sadhya feast and the use of banana leaves for serving.
01:04 - 01:28: Scientific benefits of using banana leaves for food.
01:28 - 01:57: Tradition of adding salt to the plate and its significance in cultures.
01:57 - 05:22: Suhasini explains the benefits of all the 26 dishes in Onam Sadhya.
05:22 - 08:07: Ryan's tips on enjoying the Onam Sadya feast smartly, and with portion control.
08:07 - End: Wrapping up with a suggestion to go dancing and enjoy the meal.


#HappyOnam #OnamSadya #HealthyFeast #TraditionAndHealth #FamilyAndFood #CelebrateTogether #BananaLeafFeast #NutritionJourney #OnamVibes
Products to purchase: -
Collagen - https://www.ryanfernando.in/ryan-recommends/collagen-powder-with-stevia.php
1chaze - https://quanutrition.com/product/1chaze/
Books - https://www.ryanfernando.in/book/

Socials - 
Link tree: https://linktr.ee/Ryan_SecretNutritionTips
Instagram: http://www.instagram.com/ryan_nutrition_coach/
Website: https://www.ryanfernando.in/

Transcript: I'm so excited happy honor to all our followers out there and I'm excited today because I'm introducing to you my senior most nutritionist who's going to talk about the onam sadya but before we get started so aski what's onam to you onam Ryan is one Festival which is not as for religion but it's one Festival where all the people in Kerala come together to welcome King mahabali on his 10 days back from his Heavenly aboard and the people come together to celebrate not just with flowers and boat races but it's also the time of harvest where people thank nature for its abundance that they get to share with their loved ones and my mouth is watering because the star of the show is the onam sadya a feast Fit For A King so sasi let's go and get some EA absolutely so SAS today let's talk about the star of today's show the onam sadya and now this is a feast for a king it's really massive and it's the Banana Leaf so that's the highlights so Banana Leaf back in the day you would have it behind everybody's house and beyond that if you look at it scientifically Banana Leaf has its antioxidants and polyphenols and the moment you put hot food on it you get those benefits of it with the food that you're eating so right from there is where this entire sadya is such a nourishing meal and it's so amazing you know when you look at people pouring in water on it and then cleaning it I genuinely believe that the water is the bridge between the banana leaves polyphenols and the hot food that's touching it and somehow the nutrition comes into your plate absolutely yes so to begin with we always add a little bit of salt in the corner of the plate cuz salt represents in a lot of cultures Purity and so we always begin with a little bit of salt on the side also salt for us is sodium chloride as nutritionist and we know that the human body requires salt to survive and I guess when you serving A Feast for a king and it has 25 dishes in it you need a little bit of salt for flavor absolutely [Music] yes almost everything on the leaf that you see tea is full of nutrition so for a little bit of salt you've got the fried banana chips the same you've got a little bit of sweet this is called Sakari which has same banana but coated with jaggery you've got all of these different pickles which of course add to the Natural probiotic you've got the in Pulley which personally is my favorite that's Ginger and Tamarind with some spices and that acts as an amazing brilliant digestive a at the end of the Sumptuous meal now for the vegetables that are different one this is the AIL my favorite again so the AIL has different vegetables you can add many it's with coconut yogurt and some green chili so there's your coconut to give you the fat the yogurt to give you the probiotic then you've got your Thorin so Thorin can be made with different vegetables beans cabbage it has a little bit of dash of coconut with spices this is a CA curri which is usually a starchy vegetable which is either a raw banana or you can even take your yam it's mixed with black Chen so you've got your protein there and coconut of course and spices you've got the pineapple Pachi which is Yum so the pineapple p is pineapple with a yogurt base and spices again so amazing flavor bomb in your mouth this is your Olan the ol's a mix of a Ci or a lentil of sauce and it's got yogurt again as a base this is a little Bland so while all flavors add this is a bland part of it you've got your beetroot p over here and here is your morry this is like a g vegetable with yogurt base again rice with ghee Dal now you've got your sambar which is a lentil curry with vegetables your Rasam which is a Tamarind diluted Tamarind with spices and simmered for a long time and of course before we get to the sweets we've got your papum which is again actually lentil this is made with your black gr flour so that's again balancing it out for you so you've got a different types of P P so one this is a Dal based pisum so this is perp pisum you've got your seia pisum which is your wory and this is quite the speciality it's called the ad praam and this is also a rice based and the thing is all of these are cooked with the coconut milk base of course to end it all you've got buttermilk which will make you feel like you've had a good meal and uh adds to the probiotic benefit mostly we end a meal also with a little banana which is like a little sweet towards the end and also a good digestive so if you look at the onam sadya it's filled with vegetables that is grown natively in Kerala with a lot of coconut coconut milk and all your spices and though our ancestors wouldn't have probably thought of the scientific part or maybe they did they were quite wise they have this entire what I call a nice party in your mouth cuz you've got sweet you've got Savory you've got the inie pulley this amazing little sourness at the end you've got crisps you've got everything and the whole thing about the onam sadya is just about eating its SM you know so as my mouth cannot stop watering as you were speaking now as a nutritionist and you are a dietitian you're giving me the stamp for approval what I believe is that we could be looking at maybe portion controlling the rice maybe not asking for a second or third serving because all of us are trying to control our waist lines today and you mentioned a few of the pickles that were there and I realized that the ginger and The Tamarind were digestives yes Ginger is a natural fat burner I love the fact that you said something was Bland there so people who can't stand a lot of spice like me it kind of washes your pallet and just overall it's really amazing I think a word of caution if I were to go back in time and sit down with King mahabali and say that hey you know what I'd like to be your nutritionist maybe I do potion control on the jaggery I do potion control on my ghee and my pams which are looking so tempting am I right are these made in coconut milk yes traditionally they're all made in cocon so for a vegan person like me that's like not going to create my nose blockage so I would say that after this I'd be ready to run a marathon hey guys here are my quick tips to enjoy this onam sadya now you should enjoy this meal people ask me about putting artificial sweeteners in the desserts in the onam sadya you do this once a year enjoy enjoy yourself portion control is my first tip to you I would add on that when I serve the onam sadya for myself I make sure I take the rice once split it into three for the Rasam the sambar the curry and enjoy it with the different vegetables and that way you actually don't end up feeling like you filled yourself too much you actually feel quite good at the end of it speaking of potion control from sasani I would take that doing the buttermilk before you start the meal helps to fill up your stomach it's a digestive tool with its spices but if you want to eat lesser I'd have two glasses of Buttermilk which will kind of crowd out your stomach space and cause you to serve a little bit lesser or eat a little bit lesser yes definitely that's something that can be done if people want to start with a little bit of portion my final tip to all of you is the pickles are delicious and sumptious but you could easily overdo pickles because of oils so keep it down to a teaspoon when you're eating and a final point is a lot of the jaggery that could be used as a high sugar content so post this onam sadya a non food tip go walking with your loved ones for a long walk and reminisce about the thankful gratitude that you have for a wonderful year that you had last year and a great year that's coming ahead so um I think we should go dancing for the boat face after this so let's dig in now yes absolutely oh [Music]