Title: Genetics, Nutrition deficiencies & Sports performance l How gene test can help improve performance

Description: To learn more about genetics-based customized sports nutrition plans, reach us at +91-9743430000.

As an athlete, are you aware of your full potential? Or What is it that is holding you back?

One area where our genetic make-up has an impact on us is our capacity for athletic performance. The manner we workout, what we eat, and other factors all greatly impact how we develop our potential. The nature of the potential could be determined by genes.

Even if you have the genetic potential to be a great athlete, you are unlikely to fulfill that potential if you adopt a lifestyle of binge eating and inactivity. However, a person with a limited genetic potential might still discover methods to make up for it and do well.

You are gifted with the genes that you have got. You can't change them, but you can work on them. Aligning your nutrition with your genes will allow you to get maximum performance and achieve your full potential.

To learn more about genetics-based customized sports nutrition plans, reach us at +91-9743430000.

#sportsnutrition #ryanfernando #genetics

Transcript: progressive development as an athlete because as you progressively develop beta you push your body and when you push your body your body is breaking and when your body is breaking your diet is repairing it back again so there are two functions breaking of the body as well as performance enhancement so something like selenium doesn't help in performance enhancement it helps in breaking of the body and you break down muscle muscle thought foreign now this so they start working a little bit better got it so that's the that's the relationship of the immune system lymphocytes and seleniums in an athlete so it helps in the cleanup now when it helps in the cleanup what's happening better is that the body next morning the heart is not going up because the previous day if the municipality didn't come and clean up i'll be hardcore then i'll be able to clear it or filter it faster through the liver or kidney but then your heart rate is higher then you go to play tennis the next morning yesterday your heart rate was 68 today your heart rate is 72 yeah all of this piles up day one day day one day week on week month on month month till sometime five years later you get an injury but you have not recognized the injuries because of a nutritional discipline nutritional deficiency that is there in your genetics