Title: Pilates For Strength & Menopause l Role Of Nutrition In Menopause l Ryan Fernando l Phillipa Butler

Description: Reach out to us: +91-9743430000 l www.quanutrition.com
Watch this interesting conversation as Celebrity Nutritionist Ryan Fernando and Pilates & Menopause expert Phillipa Butler had a transcontinental link up and they discussed:
Symptoms of Menopause?
When does menopause begin?
How long on average do menopause symptoms last?
How important is it to be aware of your body and the changes? 
Why are women gaining fat in menopause
Why do they have hip problems and bone problems
Will You feel normal again when it’s all over?
What Are the long-term health consequences of Oestrogen loss?
How can Women stay healthy through and beyond menopause?
What kinds of exercise should women be doing? How does TRAINING help a person posture and aging?
How does Pilates work? What is Pilates?
How long should a menopausal woman workout in a week?
How much should a woman walk in a day
5 Benefits of Strength Training

#menopausediet #menopauseexercise #womenhealth

Transcript: Hello, hello, hello.  think about late midnight here  in Bangalore, India. It's seven  o'clock. We're doing a live  today and I'm joining Phillipa  Butler, a, chartered  physiotherapist, a certified  Pilates instructor, a certified  hatha yoga. I have always  wanted to learn hatha yoga. And  she is a meditation teacher.  And ah if you're in New York,  it's probably early morning.  So, good morning to you. This  is the menopause initiative  where I decided to bring a  little bit of information  across to you about the wisdom  of menopause and at our  nutrition clinic at the Quaa  Nutrition Clinics where I  practice as a nutritionist.  Now, if you don't know who I am  and you just kind of stumbled  upon this video or this live  stream, well, that's amazing.  I, I am a nutritionist. I work  a lot of celebrities in the  continent of Asia. And these  celebrities include sports  athletes, include film stars,  industrialists and many a times  very, very, very successful  business women. Now, today's  talk is merging the fields of  exercise and diet and  nutrition. So, I have got a  guest who's probably just had a  lunch in India if she was here,  she would be called Doctor  Phillipa Butler as a chartered  physiotherapist. So, Phillipa  Are you around? Have I got a  connection through to you?  Yes, you certainly do. Hi, good  afternoon to you. Hi, good  afternoon to you, Brian. I'm  joining you virtually with a  cup of tea. Mine's chamomile  tea because I got to sleep in  about three hours. Have you had  your cuppa today? I've had a  few cuppas already. Uh water  only for me this afternoon.  Wonderful. And if people are  joining us live on our various  Facebook platforms. The purpose  of today's discussion with Ryan  Fernando that's, me the  nutritionist. And Phillipa  Butler the Pilates instructors  worked with a lot of people and  I'm going to talk about the  wisdom of menopause. Exercise  and menopause. Nutrition in  menopause So strap on, let's  get seated and discussing on  this whole concept of  menopause. For me, menopause as  a man of 47 years of age, I  work with clients but I don't  understand it a lot of times.  Because they say you have to  experience menstruation and  then you have to experience the  pausing of menstruation which  is menopause. Phillipa, if, you  had to define to the world,  menopause. What would we all  take on it Ryan, we could be  here all day. But what so the  definition is that it's the  cessation of menstruation for 1  year. So that you know women  are considered to be in  menopause when they haven't had  a period for one whole year.  But really, you know, that's  the tip of the iceberg because  menopause comes to us in  advance of that, in as much as  the shifting is occurring way  way way in advance of the time  when the periods actually come  to a halt. And so it's this  time when many many women start  to struggle with a whole  variety of signs and symptoms  that you know for the most part  this stuff shouldn't take us by  surprise We should have known  about it. We should have been  anticipating it. But you know  people don't talk about this  stuff. And so so many women  It's a surprise to them. When  they start to experience  symptoms and it's a it's  confusing and people don't know  what is happening to them. That  is women of course. So you know  so that's my mission to try and  demystify this whole process  and to get the dialogue going.  The more that we can talk about  this and share our experiences  and menopause because you know  they can be as different as  each individual in the land. So  so it's really important to  talk to a a whole variety of  people and and just try and get  a handle on what it is that you  might look, you might be  expecting to experience. You  know, as a as a clinical  practitioner with diet and  nutrition, for me, when clients  sit across the table and did  they do come? Most women come  for fat loss. Well, first they  come for weight loss. And once  they start exercising and then  they do the weight loss. They  they like Ryan, I think my  cycles going haywire. So,  Phillip, my question to you  would be, especially the women  in the decade of 40s to 50s,  the decade 50s to 60s and 60s  to seventies. Are there certain  signs that a women should look  for in each of these decades?  Ah and what is your wisdom and  what is your experience with  your clients and you as a  women? What is your personal  experience? If you can  enlighten us on the three  decades, 40 to 50 50 to 60 and  may be 60 to seventy. Yes, of  course and ah and certainly  it's in your 40s when these  shifts begin to occur. The  shifting, a hormonal level to  occur and for a lot of women  it's around the age of 45. And  that was my experience. That at  the age of 45 something was  definitely a foot. Something  was happening. And so for me it  began really with gradually was  the other thing. So that it can  kind of creep up on you a  little bit. And so the symptoms  that I experienced was  sleeplessness, insomnia, really  having and and not so much that  I couldn't go to sleep but that  I couldn't stay asleep and I I  was waking regularly through  the night. Um so so I interrupt  you here for the the people  that are listening in, the  women that are listening and  they're watching the live or  the recorded later. Would you  say that a lot of women face  this issue of ah a sleep  irregularity? Yes, it's  actually very common. Um and  and so women who have never  experienced difficulties  sleeping before. I think the  experiences that they they may  not necessarily realise when  they wake that they haven't  been sleeping quite as well.  But they feel fatigued in the  morning when they wake up. Or  you are aware that you've been  disturbed in the night. And and  for me I was waking something  like six to eight times every  night which was unusual for me.  Needless to fatigue is a  symptoms of menopause and and  that gets very much tied in  with this sort of sleep  deprivation that a lot of women  are experiencing. Um you know  and and sleep is so  restorative. We need sleep. So  Phillipa if you were sitting  across the counselling table  for a diet plan with me. Now I  would be listening to this from  a clinical perspective. Oh,  she's got sleep problem. Oh,  she's got fatigue. So, I would  add a small layer from a  nutrition department which  would be, hey, Phillipa, could,  we check your vitamin B complex  in your blood? Could we check  your DHEA which goes low in  women during menopause as a  blood test? And may be can be  also look at vitamin C and  vitamin D. And there is another  thing. As you are growing older  you tend to deposit more fat  around your abdominal area. So  when you lie down. So if you  are standing, when you lie  down, your gut tends to push up  on your diaphragm. So this  another part of sleep apnea  also setting in. So there was  this research where when people  lost 4% body fat ah on on the  entire body especially ah the  neck ah girth came down then  the clogging of the ah the the  throat when breathing at night  ah reduced ah the the ah the  snoring which caused  intermittent sleeping so you go  into deep sleep you choke a and  then get up so there is  menopause which is sleep and  fatigue which you are talking  to me about and I would come in  from the biochemistry part and  say hey lady could we kind of  get ah a nutritional check and  see if any of going low because  they would be going low because  of the hormonal cycle. Yeah and  I mean I think that's really  important actually because  these kinds of complaints, my  experience was, I mean, let me  just be quite clear, that was  not the only symptoms that I  had, but we are talking about  sleep just now. And, and so if  you did go to your doctor,  complaining that sleep was  disturbed or disrupted. Um, you  know, first of all, they may  not even acknowledge that  menopause is a feature. And  secondly, it's unlikely that  you would be in anyway  investigated True. Very very  very true because it's like oh  it's okay. It's part of your  age and stuff like that and and  for me as a nutritionist I'm  looking at the biochemistry  cycles. So there is a  fluctuation between cortisol  levels, your estrogen levels  and all of these and they are  all interlinked. But there are  some quick tips and fixes that  I would give women out there  which would be one. Chamomile  tea. Research has shown that  chamomile tea gives you a  deeper sleep. Have a chamomile  about three hours before you  going to sleep. That's one.  Second is kiwi fruit. And  walnut and tart cherries. These  three are nature's sleeping  aids. They contain a higher  level of melatonin as compared  to other foods. So Phillipa if  women were out there I would  put a note down and say okay  may be with your chamomile tea.  Ah around six thirty-seven in  the evening have a walnut or  two. Ah and then the final  thing is an amino acid called  melatonin. Ah ah at around 1. 5  milligrams to about three  milligrams. It's a nutritional  supplement. So women who are  going through this transitional  period. Ah where million dollar  question Phillipa has your  sleep improved now over the  years? Well ehm, I'm, I'm  afraid to say, I'm a kind of a  lifelong, non-sleeper. Okay.  And so, you know, this is a  complicated issue for me  personally. But, you know, my  experiences that now that I'm  54, and I'm, I'm don't look  fifty-four. Oh well, thank you  for saying this. That's the  only reason I mentioned it, of  course. Um, yeah, so I'm, you  know, I'm well through that  time now, it, in the menopausal  fluctuating period, And so yes,  you know, there is a suggestion  that symptoms can settle, after  that time, and so, certainly,  it is much improved, in  comparison to how it was, but  you know, I have to be  perfectly honest, Ryan, and  tell you that I had to resort  to hormonal replacement  therapy. For me, to be able to  get to that place and you know  and so you can see that I'm I'm  not carrying weight around my  neck and I'm I'm hopefully you  can see I'm not carrying weight  around my middle. Um you know  so so that there are always the  exceptions that prove the rule  but these hormonal fluctuations  are going on. Uh even in the  most healthy specimen and and  you know so it so it is  important to be able to have  access this kind of information  which is why I'm here chatting  with you today. Awesome. So,  for anyone listening in, we are  talking about sleep, fatigue.  It could be linked to your B-12  deficiency. It could be linked  to melatonin deficiency. In  fact, Philip, I'm working with  Doctor Stephen Dominic who is a  very famous doctor from Austria  who's written a book called the  Alkaline Cure. And we were just  having an offline discussion on  the health of the microbiome.  We've got lots to discuss  today. But sleep is also  controlled in your microbiome  and your microbi is all that  bacteria in your gut nearly two  KGs of it and trillions of them  actually chomp on your food  when you feed it and during the  the the transition from  perimenopause to menopause  There's. a lot of gut imbalance  because of the hormonal  fluctuation. In fact women have  told me that when they are in  normal menstruation cycle in  younger years. During the  periods of menstruation or the  days prior to menstruation they  do have bloating. Some women  come to the of even having  loose motions during their  periods. And you you kind of  think well what's the  menstruation got to do with  your digestive system? Your  your gut system going out of  toss. But research is now  showing that your microbiome  significantly controls your  sleep, controls your mood,  controls the longevity or delay  of menopause in women. So ah  when you talk about hormonal  therapy, I am up when it comes  from a doctor. Neither you nor  me are are equipped or  qualified to figure out the  hormonal balance after blood  test. Which is why we would  talk about exercise today and  we talk about nutrition today.  And that's something that I  believe every women is not  addressing and they are jumping  straight away into the medical  treatment. and leaving aside  nutrition on the plates to you  know I've eaten certain way in  my 20s to 40s. So I need to  kind of just continue that. Ah  Kul ah you've you've defined a  few ah stuff to me but there is  so much more this hot flashes  and there is ah you know pain  in the body ah there is lack of  sexual desire some women  getting sexual desire more ah  there is ah loads of ah body  fat getting deposited in areas  that and this is the number one  question I get when people walk  into my nutrition clinics is I  am putting on weight, I am  putting on weight, I am putting  on weight and in our part of  the world which is India ah  women take care of the family  first. I think they do that  everywhere. But over here ah  the the the predisposition to  take care of yourself first.  First take care of yourself  first and then you are you are  fit enough and and and your  your health is good enough to  take care of the rest of your  family. Ah is not a notion. So  let's start about taking care  of the body Filipa with you.  What are the what are the  things that you are advising  women beginning to start  perimenopause and getting into  menopause. important is  exercise for them? Well it's  it's absolutely crucial. It's  crucial at every stage of life  but never so important as in  midlife. And actually we can  gain as much if not more, if we  take up regular exercise in the  middle of our lives, then, if  we've been doing it all along,  and so, you know, this is,  doesn't age, doesn't have to be  a barrier, is what I would say.  And, the thing with exercises,  for some people, it's a dirty  word. Uh for me, it's my  absolute and utter passion. And  it's something that I've done  for my own health and well  being for the whole of my life.  Since I was a child in actual  fact. Uh I was inspired to  start sport, sporting pursuits  when I was only a child and  that was because of my family  influences. But you know, for  the most part, women in sport,  it tends to be if you do sports  as a woman, it tends to go into  a decline after the school  years. And for the majority of  women, exercise is not  necessarily a feature of every  day and that you know, women  are busy like you said, they're  busy taking care of everybody  else and it's really hard to  carve out time for yourself in  the middle of the day or in the  evening or you know, whenever  it is. But it's so so important  and you know, and so my mission  is to share the power of  movements with as many women,  as many people as possible. Uh  you know and for me my passion  is Pilates It. was my first  love when I came to Pilates I,  were, it was about 16 years ago  and and I came to Pilates  because actually, I I hurt my  back when I was working as a  physiotherapist and and it was  something that a colleague of  mine introduced me to in the  physiotherapy department  therapeutic or clinical Pilates  And. and so that started me on  my journey with Pilates and you  know I had my first training  course. Only a weekend and at  the end of the weekend my back  pain was feeling a whole lot  better. And I was kind of like  oh my goodness. You know this  is incredible stuff. So so  Phillipa because we have got  quite a number of people  watching in. Oh yes. I don't  know what is Pilates. What is  Pilates? I'm hearing  term for the first time. I am a  nutritionist. What is Pilates?  Is? it a dance that I do or  something like that? No, well,  do you know what? Uh Joseph  Pilates was a gentleman and he  was German by descent and in  actual fact, it majority of his  career was spent in New York  and he did work with Prima  Ballerinas. So, there are quite  a few dance influences in  Pilates and Pilates is really  just a series of exercises but  Pilates is much more about the  how. How do we move? How do we  do these exercise Uh these  exercises. Pilates is about  body position or body  alignment. Pilates is about  core activation or the core  muscles. Uh Pilates And. why is  why is this important for women  in menopause? I mean why is the  core important? Could as a  physiotherapist could it tell  me because you know when I tell  my clients as interested as you  need to do Pilates. You need to  do you oh god? Do you know  you're growing older and your  fat is getting larger and  larger and your muscles getting  smaller and smaller. And muscle  is the only age reversible  organ for a women going through  menopause So, if she can grow  more muscle. Yeah. She would,  she would hold back on the fat  growing out of range. So, you  know, tell me a little bit more  about how Pilates is going to  help the core and stuff like  that. Well, because we apply  the mind, muscle connection and  specifically to the deep layer  of muscles that surround the  spine, the the  centre of the body. And if we  can you know because those  muscles actually, the, the core  muscles for the most part, are  stability muscles. And the  muscles that automatically  should switch on as we go about  our daily lives. If you stand  on one leg to reach a high  shelf, you know, without the  core, you would fall over. So,  so those muscles are automatic,  but for lots of people, they  kind of forget how to work I'm  thinking of a woman who is 55  reaching up on her and to take  a bottle off the shelf in the  kitchen. And is this where this  the hip problem and the bone  problem and I fell down and  broke my hip later. Is it  linked to menopause And? can we  then maybe discuss with all our  viewers how important it is to  maybe muscle train, a weight  train and then you have you  know a Filipa ICU right now is  a car dealer. You've got all  your car over there. You got  Pilates you, got yoga, you got  weight training, you got  running, you got marathon. Ah  what else? I mean ah what  should a women going through  menopause do because she's got  seven days a week. Should she  work out all seven days? And  how much of time should she  devote to her body in Pilates  or anything else that we just  I'm asking you about. Well for  the most part exercise needs to  be regular for the benefits to  be realised and maintained So  it's really unfortunate and it  did you know it's the same with  nutrition. If we don't stick to  the plan then things start to  go awry. And so with movement  it really is a a practice for  life. It's a practice for every  day and it's a practice for  life. So you know in an ideal  world we would do something  every day. But what I would say  is five days out of seven that  you should be doing something.  Yeah. Five days. So so I'm  doing because Phillipa when  this video gets recorded and  goes back on to our YouTube  channels. It's going to pop up  here on the site. You gotta  work out five days a week and  for how long? Well, you know,  this this lots of different  guidance out there but you're  look in somewhere in the region  of thirty minutes, five times a  week, and maybe, you know,  that's that's kind of a minimum  really. I like, do you know, as  I like Ryan, I like counting my  steps. I like  yeah I've got one too. There  you go. It's hiding. I'm at  5000 today because I'm standing  up and and doing my lecture  with you. Ah but but just just  one thing that I want to get  our audience in over here. And  I've got  my team running this live. Um  comment on the live. How many  steps you do in a day? Number  one And as a women if you are  watching this how much of time  in a workout could you devote  to your body for a workout? Is  it 30 minutes? Filipa the  expert. The Pilates expert, the  charted physiotherapist, the  person who has gone through  menopause. She is the expert  here, not me. I'm just a  nutritionist. She is saying you  need to do more than 30  minutes, 30 to 40 minutes. As a  nutritionist, I would say,  well, if you could do 40  minutes to one hour of  resistance training, Pilates  Training, Yoga Training, I  would give that but most women  turn around say ah Mr. Fernando  ah I you don't run a house, we  run a house, we run a husband,  we run a children. So you have  no idea, we have no time for  ourselves, you know. So, ah, ah  just just give us a diet,  right? So, please comment on  the links below and if any  women out there have any  questions, please punch them  in. I'm going to ask them to  fill a bar. So, hopefully your  question on exercise can get  answered. Coming back to you  Phillipa Um Well, you know, you  were talking about how much  should we move? But but really  we do need to break it down  into the types of things that  we're doing because not all  exercise is equal, sadly. And  you did make a reference to  muscle mass, building muscle  mass is so, so important, and  particularly for women, we, you  know, we reach peak muscle mass  in our late twenties.  You know, that's. Phillipa why,  don't, why don't you look like  Anil Schwarzenegger? Because  women always tell me, I can't  do weight training. I will  become a body builder. And I'm  like, no, you can so could you  like I love that you are  telling me that women should  weight train tell me about more  about this weight training and  muscle mass. Well, you know,  particularly with Pilates what,  we're doing with is working  muscles in a lengthened  position, in a lengthened  fashion. And so, resistance  training, like Arnold  Schwarzenegger and actually,  I'm a huge fan of Arnold  Schwartz and they're going, I  love mussels. I'll be back.  Yeah, so but you know, to, in  order to generate that peak,  the peak of muscle as my son  whose body building calls it,  you know, you you work muscles  into a shortened position in  order to generate that effect  and so, we can totally get  strong without getting bulky if  that's what women are worried  about. And in actual fact, you  know, you know the muscle  drives the metabolic rate and  so the more muscle mass we got,  the, the, the more our  metabolism is working in our  favour. You know, for I've got  a few comments going live on  our our Facebook channels and  we have got Gautamy and Anupa  talking about doing 8, 000  steps in yoga. So, to a lot of  women out there doing the yoga,  I would come in and say  research has shown twice a week  and Filipa, you can, you can  agree or you know, say it's  more or less but twice a week,  weight training for 45 minutes  and for me, muscle is the only  age reversible organ and and I  would come in and tell the  audience that I use this line  always in my consequences I'm.  like you know in America, they  had these two buildings and it  was an old age home. In the  basement of one, they gave them  a gaming studio and a  entertainment center and in the  other basement, they put in a  gym. So, the the old age people  was 70 plus. They started  grumbling about oh the other  buildings got a gaming center  and you've given us a gym. But  the scientist prevailed and  gave them some incentive and  they took biopsies of quadricep  muscle. The quadricep muscle is  the muscle you know above ah  just near your knee. And they  found out ah they did for both  the groups. And they said okay  the group that had the  entertainment centre. Hey guys,  hey ladies, all of you old  people. You know ah enjoy  yourself, watch TV, play games,  play ah bridge and stuff like  that. The other place they they  made them do leg extensions  which is basically an exercise  and they walk them through a 40  minute three times a week.  Training regime and another  three times a week slow walking  on a treadmill. Six months  later Phillipa and everybody  who tuned it six months later  these average 72 year olds the  group that was entertained  their muscle biopsy grew older.  But the scientist were  astonished when they took the  muscle biopsy of the group that  started weight training. They  had regressed by six years in  age in the muscle biopsy. So  for me That is proof in the  pudding saying to everybody  going through menopause Pick up  a set of dumbbells, pick up a  set of resistance tubes, find a  person like Phillipa Butler  I'm. going to be putting her  contact details, her website,  so you can email her, you can  get in touch with her, you can  watch her online videos, her  online classes and figure out  how you can do more what I call  is muscle training. Phillipa,  back to you. other words of  wisdom from the exercise world.  Well, you know, you you  mentioned that two times a  week. So, it's two or three  times a week to do resistance  training. It's two or three  times a week to do mobility,  flexibility type training. What  is mobility? Mobility. Well,  improving the race. Is it  dancing? Well, it could be.  Like I said, again, but it's  basically the the the amount of  movement that you have in each  joint in your body You know, in  an ideal world, we should put  every joint in our body through  its full range of motion every  day. And you know, I can pretty  much guarantee nobody's doing  that. But you know what if use  it or lose it as the saying  goes. It's you know it's  absolutely and utterly true.  There's I love that line. Use  it or lose it. Yeah. So we are  talking about this to women.  Women have fat. Women have  bone. Women have muscle. If you  don't use your muscle and if  you don't stimulate your bone  to to become denser through  resistance training. You're  going to lose it. These are  wise words from your certified  Pilates instructor Phillipa  Butler. Now Phillipa I want to  bring something about nutrition  over here. Ah research has  shown that most women want to  take up dieting When they go  through menopause. Because.  they are putting on weight.  Yeah. Right? Ah they are  gaining weight. First thing to  women who are much younger not  going through menopause right  now. This is a a fact. Women  will gain one to two KGs or two  to four pounds of weight. In  any given day, in any given  month, when they are going  through a menstruation cycle.  So the first thing I advise  women is do not stand on the  scale first thing in the  morning and oh my god, I have  gained one KG of weight and  then you decide whether that's  a bad day or that's a good day.  So, this is the first  perspective of controlling your  body from a nutrition expert  and from an exercise expert.  The fluctuation of one to2KGs  is natural. Hmm. Number one,  number two, from a nutrition  perspective, when people go on  a diet and they lose weight,  they are not aware of the  person  of body fat and the percentage  of muscle. So, my  recommendation to every women  out there is gift yourself this  Christmas a wing scale and when  you are buying the scale from  the department store, say, hey  buddy, does this wing scale  have  a body fat percentage  calculator and will it tell me  my muscle mass? Does it sink to  my phone? So, I can get that  data and does it tell me my  visceral thought, Visceral  thought is the fat around the  organs which for most  menopausal women is a biggest  threat for cardiovascular  disease and hypertension. So,  if you can keep your visceral  fat down in the single digits,  so you have one, two, three, 4,  5, 6, 789 So up to nine if I  meet a woman, I'm like, don't  worry ma'am, it's absolutely  fine. If you walk ten 000 steps  a day, 10, 000 steps a day,  that's weight maintenance. Oh,  Mr. Ryan, I walk 6, 000 steps a  day. I walk 8, 000 steps a day  but I am not losing any weight.  10 000 is weight maintenance.  If you want to eat into your  fat, you've got to go beyond  10, 000 steps. Now, Filipa and  I and you all use cars today.  We use elevators. So, we've got  to take the time out. Because  if we don't use it, we are  going to lose it. Use it. Yeah,  I mean, you know, the the the  first thing we should do is  think about composition as you  say, because weight, weight is  a very crude measure. Um you  know, just on its own, it's a  number like you say and it  fluctuates on a daily basis. Um  I I really wanting to encourage  people to think about how they  feel and you know,  weight training, it's going to  really shift that brain  chemistry It's going to make us  feel better. When we feel  better. We're more motivated to  stick to the healthy life  choices that we know we need to  make. And so, you know, the  thing that I've experienced for  my own self is low mood with  with menopause and and that can  really fuel that cycle of mood  and low mood and retrieving  food from the biscuits barrel  that maybe isn't quite as  healthy as we would like. So,  boost your mood with movements  is the other thing, you know.  So, that's a very valid point.  Boost your, your mood and I  think every woman who goes  through menopause will have the  fluctuations of the mood. Uh  research is showing that  exercise plays a key role in  balancing cortisol levels and  blood circulation too. Um I  I've actually seen very very  fit marathon runners. Very very  fit people like Filipa who are  instructors. Um they, they,  they understand that they can  use exercise as a drug. It's a  very powerful drug. Exercise is  a very powerful drug. In fact,  the reason I got online with  Phillipa is that I've  understood that yoga, Pilates  these, are very powerful for  women in terms of the core  strength, the bone strength and  even something like yoga which  your different poses actually  massage in internal organs. And  I think even you, the audience  knows that exercise is  important. But I think there is  a, there is a slip between the  cup and the lip in terms of do  I have the time? Am I making  the time for my body? Ah, and,  and how important it is. So,  today me and Philip are teamed  up to try and convince you that  like you spend time getting a  shower, like you spend time  visiting the parlor, like you  spend time doing your shopping,  like you spend time may be  tucking your in, like you spend  time going for a walk with your  spouse. You need to have your  me time and your me time is not  only may be having a cuppa but  your me time is also saying,  let me get to the gym and let  me become superwoman because I  think this is really important.  If you know your muscle  percentage, you can  significantly use your muscles  to get your body into into  shape and and and it is the  hormones that are not  cooperating with you but if you  do train and not become a couch  potato, you will see that you  will walk through your  menopause far easier and  research shows this. Women who  exercise through their  menopause and the initial  phases including hot flushes,  significantly improve ah on on  the perspective of exercise.  So, I guess it is important for  us to talk about how we fuel  that, that growth. How do we  feel those muscles? Because,  you know, exercise is part of  the equation. Well, you know, I  like to it's half of the  equation at least. But your  nutrition is undoubtedly a  source of confusion for lots  and lots of people. And so we  want to fuel the body for for  muscle and bone. So so Phillipa  if if somebody comes into me so  let's say you're coming and  you're my client right? And I  would say hey Filipa, let's get  a blood test done. By Ryan, why  do I need a blood test? Well,  I'd like to know your vitamins  and minerals, right? Now, when  you reach menopause you need to  understand that your your a  good three, four, five decades  into your life. Yes. And if you  are into those many decades,  your digestive system is like  kind of tired and saying, you  know what, oh, you give me a  glass of milk. Let me decide if  I want to absorb this calcium  or not. So, with the blood  test, we know transient levels.  The second thing Phillipa now,  in 2021 and 2022, we have got  genetic testing. Wow. Nutrition  genetic testing. So, I found  out that we can check all the  nutrition markers. For example,  follic a it, vitamin B9 is so  important for moods. Vitamin B6  and niacine are so important  for lowering cholesterol. Now,  what if you are born with a  gene that doesn't absorb niacin  well? And you have a high  cholesterol. Now, suddenly  doctor is giving you statin.  Yes. In your menopause and  because you are taking statin,  it has a long term effect on  your muscle health. So, you  tend to get fatigued and tired.  Now, I need to give you  coenzyme Qten but I'm deviating  over here. Coming back. Genetic  test I come to know whether you  are lactose intolerant, gluten  intolerant. So, should you want  to be making these educated  scientific decisions rather  than, oh, you know, butter my  neighbour, she followed this  intermittent fasting and lost  five KGs. So if Berta could  lose five KGs, I'm going to go  on to Bertha's diet. Hmm. It's  bio individual in 2021. I, I  was, I was, I was wearing a  glucose monitor recently, I'm  not diabetic. But I was shocked  if find out for me white rice  gives me a sugar spike but  potatoes don't give me a sugar  spike. I was gobsmacked. I was  gobsmacked. So, I am now  changing my diet in that  direction. So, may be Filipa,  you may at some point want to  wear a continuous glucose  monitor to understand your  sugar fluctuations because you  will get cravings and I want  you to eat dark chocolate and I  want when you take ah when you  have a sugar craving, ah I, I,  I look at, oh, oh, Philip has  got magnesium deficiency. Oh,  she is got a little bit of pre  diabetic range. Let's work on  the dietary. So, this is what I  would do with the genetic  testing and the the blood  testing, your thyroid, you  know, do I look at the  hormones? I work with a with a  with a gynecologist. The moment  you start working with  hormones, there is a huge  debate out there because of the  fluctuation in perimenopause  and then maybe menopause they  disappear. Ah you you are not  going to get much inputs other  than the doctor trying to put  you on hormonal therapy which  is the call of the doctor.  However, I am asking the women  out there, would you not like  to try looking at putting the  nutritional deficiencies in  place which you've never which  you may have never done your  entire life. So, look at  focusing it from, can I put  healthier food in my body? And  whether you are in New York,  Sydney or in India or in  London, I do not care. Food has  changed in the last 30 years in  terms of its nutritive content  and its chemical contents.  Chemical form of of negative  pesticides and insecticides. Ah  nutritional content from the  calcium, sodium, potassium,  magnesium, vanadium, manganese,  whatever nutrients,  micronutrients that a woman  requires. So, if you have a  testing done that works  amazingly. Now, Phillipa if,  you had a lot of money from  your Pilates class, I would  say, hey, Kiripa, could you  kind of give me about three  hundred pounds and I will do a  poop analysis of your  microbiome. I will send it to a  DN who analyse all your  bacteria and will come to a  conclusion which foods you  should eat or should not eat  for the next two, three years  of your life. And in that we  start getting four to five KGs  weight loss. Right? So these  are scientific ways that women  could do it. A blood test that  generated against a microbiome  test. Ah what should you be  looking for for better  nutrition for the muscle? Flat  down. Plant based protein.  Okay. I I do know that in the  earlier years we went with  dairy which was whey and but  research is saying that ah  better plant based protein ah  vegetarians live longer, lesser  incidences of ovarian and  breast cancer. And ah for me  soy ah one of the iso flavons  ah soy isoflavon. So we give it  as a nutritional supplement.  There are in soy there are two  iso flavours if I remember  correctly. And they have an  ability to behave like  phytoestrogens. Hmm. Which help  women through menopause  There's. black cohosh. Ah  there's taking more vitamin D.  Filipa you may be amazed if you  do ah if you do blood testing  of people in in UK and this is  a big issue in the UK because  everyone works with the NHS.  So, you can't kind of go  forgive me if I'm wrong over  here but you can't just go and  ask for a blood test like in  India, I can walk to a place  and they analyse everything and  they just do it without a  doctor's prescription. And I  can pay for it and get it. So,  it's a little bit difficult.  So, all my UK based clients are  like, I've got to go and talk  to my doctor and he's going to  ask me, why do I need a niacin  blood test? There's nothing  wrong with me And so, I do  believe nutritive medicine,  medical nutritive medicine is  now making ah ah ah come back  and I would advise you to ask  your doctor to get that done  for you. And I would also ask  you to get the DHEA blood test.  Because in most women this is  low and they feel that adrenal  fatigue, low energy levels.  Final point from the diet.  Women tend to get this  emotional eating after 3 PM to  5 PM. It's not got to do with  the current generation. It's  got to do with evolution. Women  been designed to work with the  sun. The biological clock with  the sun. So, you need to eat  the most amount of food from  sunrise to about midday. And  then your cravings come in the  evening because most women are  busy in today's world. They  have got jobs, they are  working. Breakfast is very  small. Lunch is almost  negligent. By three o'clock the  body is gotten into a a dip in  a drain. So, if somebody is  working out in the morning, I  advise there was a research  done at the University of  Sarif, I'm not mistaken. Men  should fast and train. Women  should eat and this is very  very important especially in  menopausal women. So, you got  to have may be about 10, 20  grams of protein, about an hour  prior to your training,  especially if it's resistance  training, Pilates Training If.  it's yoga, walking, maybe you  don't need that much. An egg  should suffice it six grams of  protein with a fruit. Post  workout filipa. Since you are  an instructor, I would give you  15 to 20 grams of protein in  your normal dietary pattern. Do  you need a protein supplement?  Well, if you are working with  the nutritionist, I pride  myself work with my clients, we  can achieve it while I diet.  I'm like, oh no, baby. No, no,  no, but if I eat so much of  beans and if I eat so much of  things, my calories go up. I  have seen when women begin to  eat, they gain muscle and  listen in closely everyone.  Muscle stores, I think about  six times more water than fat  does. So, muscle is extremely  dense. So, fat might be this  big for one pound or one KG and  must might be just this much  for one KG. So, you're going to  get toned up and to build  muscle, you've got to give  protein. About 10 to 15 grams  after your workout within a one  hour window. If you don't do  this, your muscles going to be  saying, hey, this lady really  whacked me in this workout and  she was trying to build some  muscle but guess what? Muscle,  muscle was like, okay, I've got  all of this glucose in me. I'm  going to burn it off. Great,  that's a first 20 minutes. Ah  and then you you got your very  gunhorn your workout whether  it's morning or evening and  then after 20 minutes the  masjid like hey let's get some  fat into the act. Fat is  sitting down over there in the  on the couch reading a  newspaper having her cup of  teas like ah darling. I ain't  getting out for this lady at  all. Let's do one thing. Just  contact the muscle, ask the  muscle to commit suicide and  break down. So you get this? As  you start doing weight  training, your muscles going  down. Because your diet's  correct. So, I need you to get  that protein to get your muscle  up and it's the muscle that  takes that button. In India, we  call it a latte and it beats  the fat into submission. Now,  all women say, oh wow, this is  really good. I'm going to start  working out really well  tomorrow. But from a  perspective, you can lose about  20 grams of fat in a day. Which  is about 600 grams per month. I  want three KGs of fat loss  mister Fernando I. am not  paying you the big bucks if I  don't get three KG fat loss.  It's metabolism, it's not  economics, it's as simple as  that. Ah Phillipa are, you  taking any supplements? Well,  Ryan, I supplement with vitamin  D in the Western Hemisphere.  It's recommended that we take  vitamin D every day  particularly between October  and April. Um and I supplement  with magnesium. and you know an  all round women's vitamin is  the. That's very good. That's  very good. So, I would advise  all women, get the blood test,  a a good multivitamins, good.  If you're scared about taking a  multivitamin, get your  physician's advice. When you're  looking to multivitamin, your B  complex vitamins are very  important. Filipa, you hit the  nail on the head. Um definitely  calcium and magnesium are  crucial. Uh one learning that I  have had from the gene test in  my clinic is that excessive  calcium can affect your  arterial stiffness. Uh blood  pressure from direction and  plaque formation. So, there are  certain individuals in the  planet who have a wholesome  calcium absorption which means  from your normal food, you get  enough. So, you want to be  taking a multivitamin minus  calcium. In India, we have 70%  of the women who are anemic or  iron deficient. Wow. So, we  want to be taking an iron  supplementation. You want to be  taking something that's kind in  the gut. So, the the, the, the,  the modest operandi when, when,  you know, if you walked into my  clinic, he says, should I take  some more supplements? My  neighbours taking this, my  colleagues taking that. I would  say to you the prescription of  a nutritional supplement is  borderline between your  nutritional discipline and your  nutritional indiscipline. If  you are disciplined and you eat  the balanced diet under the  guidance of a nutrition because  let's take, let's face it,  okay? Nobody has ever been  taught to eat out of science.  We have all learnt to eat out  of love and culture. Our  parents have taught us at the  dining table. Ah you know my  mom start ah put food on the  table, made me like my food.  And then as I have gone through  life, you know you watch what  your wife makes for you. She  wants ah what to put on the  table. So, it's very love and  culture based. It's not  scientific. And I think a women  kind of designs her entire meal  plan around her family rather  than her own body. So, I think  when we miss out on those  snippets, a supplement really  helps. I'm huge on Siberian  ginseng. Um I've seen it works  with with women in menopause.  I'm. huge on bioflavonoids and  for every women that comes in,  I prescribe collagen outright  collagen. It's like grant, why,  why collagen? So, I was like,  okay, when I read the research  paper on collagen, it could be  bovine collagen, it could be  marine collagen. Now, they are  making variants of plant  collagen but it's got the amino  acids, it's not the real  collagen. But it should be good  enough if you are vegan or  vegetarian. Now, here's the  story. When I read the research  paper on collagen, they found  out that fine line wrinkles  improve in six weeks.  elasticity of skin bumped up by  22% in six weeks. And reduction  in hyperpigmentation and dark  spots drastically dropped by  under five to 6%. So I am  thinking lady you going to want  to love my program. So I can't  prescribe makeup to you to look  to make your skin glow. But if  I write collagen at 10 grams a  day in six weeks you going to  come back very happy and you  going to be like Ryan I want to  follow more of the diet. So  this is a secret tip that I  would give all women. You could  make your bone broth soup.  Which will release collagen  into it. So, it's called bone  broth or collagen soup. You can  Google this up on the internet.  Or you could buy a ready made  collagen either marine or  bovine. Be careful. Some of you  are allergic to fish. So you  get collagen based from fish  source. And and to give you  food for thought if you look at  the Japanese, the Koreans. They  do a lot of stews. Which are  marine based and seaweed based.  And if you look at their skin,  it's very porcelain like. So,  you want to take a little bit  of input or just just Google up  Can menopausal women take  collagen? What does collagen do  to my body? Is collagen safe to  take? What is the dose of  collagen? Because collagen is a  protein. So, if this is one  gift that you could give to all  our listeners today, it would  be supplement with about five  to 10 grams of collagen. Ah  best time to take it after  Filipa's workout. Yo, Daniel  Pilates do, we need a reformer  bed to do Pilates? Uh no, Ryan,  but I just interject something.  Yes, please, please, please  interrupt me. This is your show  and my show. Let's, let's just  go and banter because we  want to give as much  information out there. You  know, I mean, collagen  synthesis, it's not just in the  skin, is it collagen? It's,  it's in every tissue. Uh, and  so, muscle, ligament,  cartilage, and you were kind of  mentioning earlier about, is  this why our hips start to  ache? Balancing on one leg  isn't necessarily going to make  your hips start to ache. But,  the collagen synthesis is  affected by the shifting  hormones of menopause. Uh and  not just in the skin. So you  know you are potentially more  prone to a ligament injury  because of this. To attend an  injury. There's definitely  research around that. And  that's actually the the  cartilage and the that's covers  our bones in joints such as the  knee and the hip. Can be  affected due to this shifting  collagen synthesis. And and so  the quality of the cartilage is  affected. It's compromised. And  that can lead to degenerative  joints Changes and so joint  aches and pains and such like.  So so I think the the far  reaching consequences of  collagen we should consider as  well. It it isn't just in the  skin is it? Absolutely  Absolutely. Ah you know ah  Phillipa if ah I work with some  of the most elite athletes in  the world and ah you know when  I tell them it's going to work  on your joints and ligaments.  People are not able to  visualise that whoa this is  going to be the lubrication  between my knee and my ACL and  stuff like that. And it's a  building block protein matrix  and all. So I was like you know  what let's just go with skin  because what's still hooked on  skin. Inside I'm repairing  everything and they going to be  like I feel like a million  bucks and you know then she is  like a ballerina at that point  and stuff like that. But I I  think in today's discussion if  there is something that we can  safely allow people to take.  Provided they don't have a food  allergy to the source of the  food source of collagen. I  think collagen would be number  number one on my list. But in  India you know ah Filipa I have  a collagen. Ah I I've made a  collagen and I actually sell it  on on a website called  supplement.in. Ah because my  wife Wendy pulled my leg and  she's she was having collagen  from different brands and she  said to me. They taste really  bad in your a big shot  nutritionist and you, you, you  talk about all of this, why  can't you design a nice tasting  collagen? So, I spent one year.  Did a beautiful tasting  collagen. Ah but there is an  unfortunate problem in our part  of the world. Majority of our  population is vegetarian. Oh,  yes. So, I want to give one tip  to the vegetarian population,  for those of you who are  checking in from India or  vegetarian or vegan. Proline,  hydroxyproline and lycine are  three important amino acids in  cartilage synthesis. So, if you  can find the foods that are  high in protein, hydrox proline  Ah metunine also I forgot  metunin and lycine. You could  command your body to make its  own collagen. By the way ah  Phillipa just for for the  scientist out there who is  going through menopause You.  are absolutely right. We don't  absorb protein into our blood.  We take the collagen. We break  it down. So collagen is like a  car dealer and has that pack of  cards. And says okay I'm  going to give you all these  amino acids in your blood. And  then your blood takes to the  liver and the liver sends  different amino acids packaged  it. And then Phillipa's knee is  just done like ah I don't know  what pose whatever you call on  standing on one knee and that  knee is like okay we had a 30  minute class today on this knee  calling up the liver please  send in some I said yeah yeah  yeah we are sending some  glutamine is coming in branch  chain coming in I said oh  branch chain I mean I said  makes up 30% of a women's  muscle Phillipa you got to be  taking five grams of branch  chain I mean acids during a  workout oh Ryan how should I do  that ah well your liver is  going to ask for it during the  workout so just dunk in five  grams of BCA in your during the  workout. Ah by the way plain  BCA is extremely bitter. So you  might want to get a flavoured  version. But ah the other amino  acids, protein, hydroxy,  proline would come in from your  protein supplement. And for  women I would probably do a soy  protein or a tofu or a tempe.  At least twice or thrice a week  to kind of give you the soy as  your flavours. Filipi with  regards to exercise My brain is  totally bombarded at this  point. With all that  information. Ryan, you are a  absolute mind of information,  honestly. I'm going to, I'm  going to send this across to  you, Phillipa and I'm going to  put this on the video. So,  these are things that people  could do from a nutritional  point of view because Phillipa,  what I want the world to  realize is that we tend to turn  to medicine immediately to heal  us. Please understand one  thing, before the advent of  medicine, the human race died  or healed itself. who healed it  own body. And so the evolution  has made your body understand  the lack of nutrients and the  excessive nutrients. And the  wrong nutrients and the right  nutrients. I think if if every  women just sat down and made a  list and this is a simple  exercise Phillipa I wanted to  do before we finish of 2021.  Keep a small food diary. Write  down the foods you eat. Okay.  when you get up in the morning,  take a deep breath. both  nostrils. If they are clear, if  they are clear, whatever food  you ate 24 hours ago has not  created mucus. Wow. And your  sinus are not locked. Kick mark  all those foods you love. Now,  I'll share with you how I  discover it. I am allergic to  chocolate. Okay. Part of. I I  did the food, food intolerance  test, this chocolate, this  peanut, there's there's milk  and there's wheat for me. So,  if I eat any one of these  foods, when I get up in the  morning, it's completely clock  My wife has nudged me five  times a night that I have  snored. Right? So, I want  people to be Sherlock homes of  their own body. Keep the food  diary, right? Then we have a  bowel evacuation, we go to  potty, all of us potty on the  planet. I always tell women,  check out if you had a great  party, a okay party, or a down  party. Now, don't ask me to  describe that to you but it's  much like your spouse. Some  days your spouse is very good,  some days your spouse is  intermediate and some days you  just want to disown your  spouse. It's same with your  poop at the end of the day.  Well, you know, that's as  fascinating actually and and  that is something that does  bother us more during this  menopause time, digestive  challenges and and the body,  the inputs and the outputs and  your body is dealing with  things that it used to quite  happily contend with and then  all of a sudden, it's it's  really not working. It's it's  whatever you're doing is not  working anymore. So, so, you  know, I I like the nostril idea  and I and definitely you know,  some people struggle with sinus  trouble the whole time and  maybe it could be as simple as  food. Uh I'd I'd love to think  that because you know. It is  only food. It is only food. I'm  totally on that page with you  but movement is medicine and  food is medicine and if only we  could you know, return to some  of these traditional values,  herbs, herbs and you know,  things up from the roots in the  garden Uh I mean I I absolutely  absolutely concur that if we if  we can listen in and tune in is  the other thing with our  bodies. But you know we're so  busy going about our lives  mindlessly. Not really  connecting with how we feel in  our mind. How we feel in our  bodies. How we feel in our gut.  And and if we can make those  connections deeply. Then we can  really start to notice whether  or not that the food is  affecting us. Um and so I I do  I'm definitely going to keep  the diary Because you know  because the other thing is that  we kind of are very good at  cheating ourselves and  persuading ourselves that the  the it's not what I'm eating or  it's not what I'm doing. I'm  you know but then when you  actually commit the pen to the  paper the truth kind of you  you've stirring the truth in  the face. And and that really  powerful actually. You know and  and and so food is fuel. Food  is nourishment but you know is  there a role for intermittent  fasting? This is something that  we do in such a lot about  aren't we? It's very topical at  the moment. Yeah so from a  menopause point of view so I  had the privilege of having a  very gifted team with me. Uh we  have about 54 dietitians on my  team here in India and we work  globally. Uh they are always  women are all women in my team.  They are just two boys in the  team. Ah and and ah for me  understanding the the female  hormonal cycle it's at work  everyday. But intermittent  fasting is a discussion that we  have had on the team. And  especially for the menopausal  ah patients or women have gone  through menopause Let. me break  it down. Evolution did not have  fridges. In the past. Evolution  in the past did not have seize  all round food, we add seasonal  fruits. Evolution in the past  grew crops where you had  abundance at one season of the  year, spring and summer. And  then autumn it tapered off and  winter was fasted. So, I do  believe that if we take the  last 00 years, man has evolved  faster than it's ever evolved.  Yeah. But our genetics have not  changed this much, which is why  hypertension, diabetes, you  have menopausal women much  larger today as compared to  their grannies. Or great granny  So, intermittent fasting from  my book after researching is a  thumbs up. But it has to be  done from a women's  perspective. I would advise  most women to not do the early  morning and late breakfast  because I have analysed it from  an emotional point of view, a  household point of view, a food  availability point of view and  a women's psychology point of  view. You should feed through  the day, eat dinner early as  possible, as early as possible.  Because then you can get up in  the morning and start your  Pilates you, can start your  yoga, you can be in a fed state  and once you are fed as a women  in menopause, you, feel  invincible and because you feel  invincible, you plow through  the day and then because you  are getting older, by the time  three o'clock comes down, you  begin to relax, you have your  cup of tea. In today's world  because of electricity and the  internet and we work in  different time zones women are  forced to work on those high  energy levels between three and  ten o'clock at night. And I  think that's not working for  her her hormones at that point  once she is gone through  menopause So. ah we need to  tone down the lights. We need  to work harder in the first  part of the day. Eat in the  first part of the day. And I do  believe that whoever's done  this has been able to ah have  better fat loss. And for me  I've if I, if, if I have, if I,  if Filipa, if you came to me  and I put a scale of 00, I  would immediately in my mind  put 60% to fat. Because the  moment a woman comes to me for  a diet plan, she doesn't  understand the medical, the  technical, the hormonal, the  exercise, the verbs. She just  understands my body doesn't  look how it looked 20 years  ago. Can you get rid of this  fat? But for me that 60% is  psychological intimate in  fasting, really helps in  targeting that fat burning.  Provided she is aware of a  muscle. She is done a muscle  check and she knows she has  22KGs or 16 KGs or 12 KGs or  55KG whatever her weight is of  of muscle and how much of fat  and she takes that muscle and  chisels away the fat and again  Phillipa I tell people  intermittent fasting and  exercise if done scientifically  and correctly. Not how Berta is  doing it my neighbours cross  fit trainer. Oh my neighbours  Pilates trainer. I am just  going to start Pilates and I'm  not going to plan my diet. I'm  not going to plan my exercise.  I think the haphazard approach  would give you haphazard  results. And so one in 10 women  would get hit the nail on head  and she would like whoa I got  this and then suddenly all her  neighbours are falling her diet  plan which is more of look than  ah you know scientific  deduction. Ah intermittent  fasting can be seriously deep  dived by wearing a glucose  monitor, get one of those  patches on, work with a  qualified dietitian or a  nutritionist. And be truthful  to yourself with your food  diary. So ah ah I am not a  woman but ah ah I I eat jam  biscuits. On fun days. On  Sundays. I have jam biscuits. I  have gluten free jam biscuits.  Why do you have gluten free jam  biscuits? Because I did my DNA  test. Sunday evening I am my  cuppa. I have my five jam  biscuits. But when I was  wearing the CGM monitor I saw a  4 o'clock sugar spike. Massive  sugar spike  So, in a day when the other  days I was not having ah ah ah  a biscuit. So I was in denial  that I psychologically needed  to have these biscuits. Because  it's a childhood thing that jam  biscuits and you know I'm  Sunday de-stress. So, with the  same psychology which is  genderless, right? We all  cheat, we all lose food as a,  as a comfort perspective. Ah, I  would advise people to keep a  food diary, keep a monitoring  device if you can afford it, if  you can't, just keep a food  diary. Watch your weight, watch  your fat percentage and every  six months do a blood test for  the nutritional deficiencies of  the vitamins and minerals.  People are not doing that.  Doctors are looking at liver,  kidney, cholesterol profile,  your hemogram, how your  ezonophyls, how's your ESR? Not  asking for a vitamin and  mineral test because medicine  at this point doesn't say that  nutritional deficiency is the  cause of your disease but it is  the reason of most of our  issues in life. Yeah, I mean,  isn't that the truth? It the  system is kind of set up to  perpetuate the medical model  and and undoubtedly, you know,  there's the role for that but  but food as fuel, food as  nourishment, food as medicine,  it's definitely on my agenda  and and you know, you you kind  of mentioned then about the the  sugar spike doesn't just come  with the sugar spice but it has  accompanying emotions  associated with it and then the  subsequent dropped down and  cravings and so, you know, we  kind of think we're being kind  to ourselves by giving  ourselves a treat in inverted  commerce and and that actually  we're just totally undermining  the what what would be the  status quo of feeling fantastic  all the time. You know, and so  as soon as we start to do this,  that's when, you know, it's  really a challenge to to feel  fantastic all the time and  let's you know I really want  women to feel fantastic all the  time. And so with movement and  food I really you know I said  that. It's a match made in  heaven. Right? But you know  quite rightly the scientific  approach is a a demonstrating  that we are unique. We are  totally individual. And  although there are  generalities that we can apply  in our lives. Um and you know  and definitely we've talked  about quite a lot of those when  it comes to Pilates. How much  should we do in a week? How  much should we do in a day? Uh  you know and these are general  guidelines. But we do want  people to start to do more  rather than less. And so we've  got to make it manageable for  people to to you know because  if we said you should exercise  seven days a week for an hour  then they might just not do  anything at all. So we've got  make it manageable for people  but equally there is that. I as  a physiotherapist tailor the  work that I do to the  individual needs of my clients'  bodies and for the most part  you can't get to being in your  50s and in your 60s without  experiencing some kind of aches  and pains or body issues you  know. So Phillipa I'm just  thinking when when when women  come to our nutrition clinic. I  constantly tell the hire a  personal trainer, Hire a  personal Pilates instructor,  hire ah a personal yoga  trainer. And you just mention a  point you and you are you are  in your 50s and 60s and I see a  lot of people doing these high  intensity trainings or low  intensity trainings. So the  first thing my my question is  two parts because I want the  audience to to understand what  what tools they need to do is  when they go out to a gym or  find a trainer or find somebody  online is one Why is it  important to take personal  tailor made advice? Why is it  better than a group class? What  are the pros and the cons of  getting a personal guided  approach? And should I do high  intensity or low intensity  because I got these women who I  you know I'm in the gym ah and  I see these ladies and so I I  want to go up to them and say  aunty please don't run on the  treadmill please just walk. You  are like 60 years of age please  just walk. And they are like  you can make a they have never  gotten on a treadmill. So even  the way they are running is  like You can just see the knees  going in another week's time.  So, how important is personal  advice and high intensity or  low intensity? How would you  approach it for everyone  watching in today? everybody's  starting point is different.  And so it may be, like me, that  you've always done it regular  exercise throughout the whole  of your life, and you acquire a  level of experience and  expertise that is cumulative.  And, and so, you know, I have  friends who run marathons well  into their 60s and potentially  into the 70s. Now, I think  marathons are are slightly  draining for the body, and  maybe we're we're overdoing it  with a marathon, but make the  point. I agree with you. I  agree with you. I think 10  kilometres is enough but no,  no, you quite right. Yeah. So,  but to be able to do these  things as we continue, you  know, as the clock continues to  tick is is kind of dependent on  what I said earlier which is  the how. The how are we moving?  So, high intensity interval  training has its benefits  undoubtedly. We know that  high-intensity interval  training will give you the the  brain chemistry shift that will  lift and levitate the mood. But  there's also research that  shows that if we just move a  bit longer, we're going to have  the same or similar effect. So,  that maybe if you're not  working quite at such a high  intensity, you just need to do  it for that little bit longer  to have the same effect. And  the biggest thing that I see in  my clinic is that people who  suddenly embark on a new regime  of exercise, particularly over  lockdown. I mean, I was  horrified with some of the  things that people doing with  the online videos. Um you know  unsupervised. And the next  thing they're on the  physiotherapy couch. Because  they don't have the proper  form, the proper technique and  you know and our bodies are  becoming less resilient and  less. You're not 20 years  anymore. Well you know we wish  we were but the reality of the  situation is we're not. And our  tissues. You know we may be  really willing in the mind. But  the tissue are changing and and  you know what's this what's  that saying? The mind is  willing. The the the spirit is  willing but the flesh is weak.  And I think for you as a for a  for a as a physiotherapist  that's that's so that's so  true. Ah Phillipa this is some  amazing stuff that you have  shared with us that ah people  need to go long. People need to  go slow. Ah people need to not  ah injure their bodies. In fact  when I work out at my trainer  ah I am 4seven and I tell him I  got a slight pain over here. I  am putting the dumbbell down.  Come on sir. Come on sir. can  do another rep. I'm like live  to fight another day. I'm  going to be here when I'm  seventy-five in this gym. So, I  think ah my message to everyone  out there because I work with  Elite athletes and I see them  retire because they hurt. A  women going through menopause  You. cannot retire hurt.  Because retired hurt is you on  the couch and it means then I  have only the department of  nutrition to control your  weight which means a lot of  restrictions. Whereas if I have  with me, you could enjoy that  cheesecake, you could enjoy  that Snickers bar, you could  enjoy that ah in Paris with  your husband or new boyfriend  if you are going through  menopause I. don't know but the  whole point is go slow and  steady on your body and it's  like I do know that all women  in the planet have an immense  amount of patience. So, when  they have that patience, I  would say have patience with  your pillar instructor. Don't  go to her and say ah could I  fit into this dress in the next  14 days? Because that's when  Christmas is coming up. It's  like no. More like fourteen  months. That would be the more  realistic ah trend. Phillipa we  have been going great at this  session. Ah you know ah we are  getting a lot of questions that  are coming in. Ah but since our  time is restricted you are a  very busy person. I know that  as am I and it's a Sunday want  to get back to our families.  What I propose is I am going to  ask my team to get all these  questions together. We're  going to figure out those  questions in terms of written  answers and when this video  will be recorded and go online  on our YouTube channels, we'll  put it in the descriptor as our  Q and As answered also. So,  it's a resource for people with  menopause, women with menopause  where they can come and  understand and let's do, I'll  go first. What are my top five  or 10 tips for women watching  in? So, summary One, get a  blood test. Phillipa, you're,  going to come in. What are the  ten tips for for exercise,  alright? So, I am going first.  So, I am thinking from the  nutrition department, get a  blood test. If you can find out  if you can do a nutrition  genetic test, get that. If you  got a little extra money, get a  microbiome test, okay? So, that  will really tell us about the  gut health. Do a food  intolerance, food allergy test  because you are getting older.  So, you don't want to put the  food that's like that if you  have a nagging husband. So, it  of that intolerant food like  your nagging husband, right?  So, you want to, you want to  get, you want to get the nice  husband into you which is, you  know, you can't change your  husband, yeah, you can but if  if you want, you could change  the food very easily. So, I'm  giving you that tip, figure out  the cranky foods that are  irritating your gut, your  hormones. Get that out of the  way. Weight train, weight  train, weight train, with  Pilates yoga, walking, walking  is one exercise that burns fat.  I have helped women lose 17 KGs  of fat in two time. Fit into  dresses that they fitted at  their wedding time. But it was  two years of walking. It is not  ten thousand steps ladies.  10000 is weight maintenance.  More you've got it's like it's  like a bank balance. Right?  Your husband gives you some  money, you want to spend it.  Over here you've got a fixed  deposit which is called fact.  You need to spend. Spend is  your exercise. Eating is  deposits. I cannot restrict  your eating down to zero. I  have to give you food to  nutritionally survive. So keep  this as a very very important  point. During your  perimenopause and menopause.  You have to eat. You have to  take nutritional supplements.  My top guys would be a protein  supplement. Preferably a soy  protein. If you are not  allergic to soy, a green pea  protein isolate. Uh there are  few nice brands on the market.  Go for an organic plant based  protein. If you are not  allergic to milk and you are  not in in the family of breast  cancer in ovarian cancer, then  may be dairy is okay. So, a  whey protein or a casein  protein. multivitamin. Yes,  yes, yes. But check your  calcium, magnesium, iron genes.  I highly recommend coenzyme Q10  if you are on a statin. I  highly recommend that you could  use coffee, one or two cups a  day. If you are a caffeine  responder as per your genetic  test. If you are a cafe non  responder taking caffeine  increases your incidences of  stroke and heart attack.  Finally, vitamin C, collagen  and D should be your best  friends. I repeat, vitamin C,  vitamin D and collagen should  be your best friends. They are  anti ageing, they are great on  your skin. There is a lot you  could get in touch with me,  Ryan Fernando we, do global  nutritional counselling for  women. I don't do ah the the  nutritional counselling as much  as my talented dietitians. I  have a few specialist  dietitians who deal with the  female hormonal cycle. Ah and  so if you are facing problems  or wherever you are in the  world, we can guide you to get  the diagnostics and then you  can work on Zoom with us.  Phillipa your, top five or ten  tips. my top tip is start small  and build it up. Because if we  start with unrealistic  expectations then we're just  we're going to fall at the  first hurdle. Have a goal in  mind and and map out a journey  to that goal. So something  every day if we can fit it in.  And if not 5 days out of seven.  So somewhere in the region of  40 minutes every day 20 to 40  minutes every day of The  walking you mentioned but for  me from a Pilates perspective,  what I'm looking to do is to  build those muscles and for  somewhere in the region of 20  minutes every day or sorry,  three times a week to do some  kind of muscle building  activity. And so I incorporate  into my sessions, resistance,  equipment, it could be, as you  said, awaited hand weight or a  rubber resistance band. And,  actually this morning did an  amazing new workout with a  broom handle, would you believe  it? And a towel from the airing  cupboard. So, you know, there,  you don't have to invest in  expensive equipment for it to  be totally and 100 percent  effective. Keep it simple and  you're much more likely to to  achieve your goals. And you  know, take guidance because it,  there's a whole world of  difference between a squat and  a squat if you do it right, if  you do it well. And you know  the joints are not going to be  thanking us if we're not using  the proper technique, the  proper form. And with the  passage of time, this just  becomes more and more important  to do these movements well.  We'll move well and you know  what? We'll feel well as a  consequence of doing that. It's  so so important to incorporate  some movement into every bit of  our I already mentioned putting  through putting every joint in  your body through its full  range of motion every day. I  mean, you know, we don't even  think about our fingers, our  hands, our wrists, you know,  with the ability to isolate  movements to one bit of us is  is really something that, yeah,  exactly, there you go, Ryan.  So.  Phillipa if, I want to do a  session with you, questions are  coming in. If people want to do  sessions with you, you are  saying keep it simple, move the  range of joints, take guidance.  So, where do I find Doctor  Phillipa Butler Where? do I  find you? Well, I'm online.  I've got a website,  Precision.co.UK and you know  what? It's spelled with a Z. P  R E. Yeah. So, don't don't put  the S in there. P R E C I Z I O  N. That was, you know, extra  kind of funky in the in the I  am thinking you are trying to  do an ed in the yoga pose kind  of thing. It's been wonderful  having you Phillipa It's. been  amazing. I hope people in New  York to Sydney across the  world. Uh have access to this.  The aim of today to get  Phillipa on board was  menopausal women should workout  out. Muscle is the only age  reversible organ. Uh your  hormones are driven by your  nutritive molecules into your  life. Get an understanding of  the good nutrition that can  help you get aware. Figure out  the lack of molecules in you.  Whether it's nutritive or  hormonal. Figure it out with  your doctor. Figure it out with  your nutritionist. Figure it  out with your body instructor.  And once you get that done  figure out the pain points in  your life. The pain points  could from exercise, get an  expert. The pain points could  come from a nutrition issue,  get an expert. The pain point  which we did not discuss today  could come from an emotional  standpoint. But that's another  discussion for another day  where we talk about the mind  health of women and and how  they go through that. And we'll  get you back on board again  Phillipa when we get the mind  coach again. So this has been  an amazing amazing session with  everyone. you for tuning in as  in as in traditional Indian  style and in yoga we say  namaste. Namaste. Thank you so  much Ryan. 